A Party Planner’s Guide to the Best 4th of July Celebration Ever


If you are looking for something special to do for this year’s 4th of July celebration, throwing an awesome party can be both fun and rewarding for you, your family, and your friends.

Ever since the first 4th of July celebrations in the late sixteenth century, parades, festivals, feasts, and fun have been the norm.  Today, a celebration usually starts with a party at someone’s home or a local park, and then ends up with watching the community fireworks go off at the local community park.

If you would like to have a 4th of July party this year, the first thing that you will want to decide on is the location you will have it at and the time your party will start.  While clean-up is much easier if you have your party at a local park, there will be many other families trying to have their celebrations at your local park as well.  For this reason, you might choose to have your party at your home and go to the park later in the evening to watch the fireworks.

You will need to send out invitations to your 4th of July party as soon as you know where it will be held.  Your invitations are the first sign to your guests of what your party may bring.  By either printing or purchasing some theme invitations you can start to set your party’s theme even before the big day.  This will help your invited guests to begin to get excited about attending your event.

Once you have your initiations you should fill them out by hand, or print them on your computer, and make sure to include your phone number on them.  In addition, if your party will be held outside make sure you let your guests know this so they can bring the appropriate clothing for the event.

Decorating for your 4th of July party can be one of the most fun parts to the day for you.  With a red, white, and blue patriotic theme you can really go all out with streamers and Balloons.  Your plates, cups, napkins and tablecloths can be red, white, or blue or a nice combination of all of them.  In addition, add some American flags in appropriate areas to show your patriotism.  Hanging a large American flag near your front door or garage is a very appropriate thing to do for the 4th of July.

The typical menu for a 4th of July celebration is hamburgers, hot dogs, corn on the cob, deviled eggs, potato salad, and anything else you might have at a family barbeque.  For desert you can make a wonderful creation using red and blue Jell-o or a simple white cake with red and blue icing.

No party is ever complete without some music, and the 4th of July is no exception to this.  However, mixed into your regular dance tracks should be some more traditional patriotic American music as well.  Songs such as “America the Beautiful” and “The Stars and Stripes” are meant to be played on the 4th of July and will be enjoyed by all.

Make sure that during the daytime hours you take some time out to take photos of your guests in places such as in front of the American flag.  These photos can later be printed or e-mailed to your friends and family as mementos of the day.  In addition, they can be shared with loved ones who were not able to attend the event itself.

A great ending to a 4th of July party is a trip downtown to your local community park to watch the local fireworks.  If your city or town allows it, take some sparklers and safe fireworks with you for the kids to enjoy while you wait for it to be dark enough for the bigger fireworks.

Most important of all is to enjoy your 4th of July celebration and remember that it is about spending time with friends and family as well as the independence of our country.

PPPPP

Word Count 684


