Baby Leash


Many things about you change when you become a parent. You begin to see things differently, and a lot of the things that used to annoy you become something you understand. It’s easy for childless people to judge what parents may do, but they certainly cannot judge until they have children of their own. It is really that simple sometimes. If you have ever judged a parent because they cannot keep their children in line or quiet, you either had it very easy, or you just don’t have children. One thing I have changed my mind about is the baby leash.

They are referred to as many things, but I have heard them called a baby leash the most. The name is somewhat offensive, but it works. Before I had a child I would stare daggers at moms who would dare put their child on a leash. I thought it was mean and degrading, but I really didn’t know what I was talking about. Though I have never used a baby leash on my daughter, I do understand that there are times when they are a good idea.

Don’t get me wrong. I think putting a baby leash on your child just to walk down the street is silly. There’s no need for it. You do have to exercise some control over your child, but you don’t need a baby leash to do it. However, if you are going to a big event where there will be hundreds or thousands of people, it might end up being your best friend. If you have a child that darts around and is just too friendly for their own good, a leash can help you know where your child is at all times, and will keep them safely by your side. Just don’t do what I have seen some parents do. It is not a leash like you would use for a dog. Please don’t pull or yank on them. You should never do that to a dog, and most certainly not your child.

Make sure you get a baby leash that is sturdy yet comfortable, and only use it when you feel you need it for safety reasons. It is very easy for a young child to get lost or wander away in a split second. If there is a crowd, you could get separated very easily. You don’t want to humiliate your child though, and I wouldn’t recommend using a baby leash if they have any issues with it whatsoever. If they balk at the idea of it, put it away for good.

