Birdhouses & Birdfeeders


Birds are lovely creatures to have around your home. They offer beautiful sounds and they are quite colorful. Many people encourage them to be around their home by placing birdhouses and birdfeeders in their yards. This way they can come rest and get some food. During the winter when they are flying south food can become scarce. Offering birdfeeders though means you can help them to get enough food to make the journey safely.

For those that have outdoor pets such as dogs and cats, birds can become a nuisance. They may go to eat from their food dishes and drink from their water supply. This should be a concern as they will often leave excrements behind in that area. As a result your family pets could end up sick. Do your best to keep birds away from their food by offering a birdfeeder.

It can be great fun to go shopping for birdhouses and birdfeeders too. You will find thousands of different ones to choose from. Some are large and some are small but they are gorgeous. You can choose a simple one or something more elaborate. Some even look like miniature cabins for a more rustic look.

It is very simple to hang up birdhouses and birdfeeders in your yard. You may want to do so where you can see the birds coming and going from the windows in your home. Some models of birdfeeders even sit right on the window so you may want one of those options as well.

If you have the time and ambition, you can even build your own birdhouses and birdfeeders. You can get kits for them at your local home improvement store. The entire family can take part in building and painting them. You can also buy just the plans and then get all of the supplies you need to build a more complicated birdhouse or birdfeeder.

Birds are very important to our environment and making sure they have a place to be safe and plenty  to eat is a way we can help them. Both birdhouses and birdfeeders are very affordable and you can make them a unique addition to your home landscaping. Enjoy the early morning songs of the birds and observe their habits as they are attracted to what you have to offer them.

