Dressing Doggy Up For Halloween


If you have never owned a pet, the idea of dressing up a dog in a Halloween costume definitely sounds a little silly. After all, it's not like Fido is going to go around asking for candy, right? To some, it may seem like a childish obsession to need to dress the family pet up like you would a person, to others just another way that the big companies of corporate America have decided to try and squeeze a few extra bucks out of patrons this Halloween season. For others, however, there is a certain charm to family pets being dressed up in celebration of the holiday.

Icebreakers and attention getters

As any kid can tell you, dogs are a great way to get to know people. Especially ones dressed in costumes. With the exception of the few people who might be afraid of dogs, many love to come up and say hello and offer a pat to a dog that they see on the street.

Of course, every kid out trick or treating has one goal – get as much candy as you can. Having a dog in a costume is a great way to do that. The houses that you visit will love the cuteness factor of the whole get up. Plus, it is sure to inspire some conversation, and the friendlier you are to people the more likely you are to receive candy in return. Get a dog costume that matches your own for extra cute points.

Protection and safety

A loyal family pet is going to look out for its family. So even though it is a good idea for mom and dad to come along while trick or treating, a dog is an extra bit of protection for your child should he or she get lost. Even a small dog will bark at something that is amiss, and larger dogs have the whole intimidation factor. Many children are also more careful about crossing streets when they are with a family pet.

Choosing a costume

There are a wide variety of costumes for dogs. Consider one that coordinates with your child's costume. As with costumes for any member of your family, you will want to be sure that it fits properly. Avoid any with long hems that could cause your dog to trip while walking. You will also want to make sure that wearing the costume will not interfere with attaching a leash. A few dry runs of walking around the neighborhood with costume on may be required to get your dog accustomed to wearing it.

If your child is going to be the one walking the dog, make sure that they are able to control it. You do not want your beloved family pet running off into the night. Also consider your dog's personality – very aggressive or very fearful dogs are not going to enjoy going out with all of the ruckus going on. And of course, be the responsible pet owner and always clean up after your pet.

Choosing a doggy Halloween costume can add even more fun to the holiday by allowing your family pet to join in.

