Facts about Dog Agility


Dog agility trials are becoming more and more popular the world over. They began in England, as so many good things, do, but "agility fever" quickly spread all over the globe. Now there are clubs and events everywhere that there are dogs.

Some clubs include the Kennel Club (in the U.K.), the United States Dog Agility Association (USDAA), the American Kennel Club (AKC) and the Agility Association of Canada (AAC). However, you need not be affiliated with or even live near a club or training facility to enjoy the sport of dog agility

Dogs are intelligent creatures, and they love a challenge. As the aforementioned kennel clubs are well aware, every breed has its own strengths and assets, both physically and intellectually. It's great fun to explore what your dog can do, and even train for competitions!

Even if you train your dog on your own dog agility course, and don't wish to be affiliated with any groups, it's still a good idea to stay in touch with them via phone or e-mail to stay aware of any events that may be happening in your area. Dog owners are a great group of people, and love to share advice and success stories. Dog agility events are also a great way to get outside and meet and greet other great pets.

Agility competition for dogs became popular all over the world in the 1980s, and agility enthusiasts have been looking for top-notch dog training equipment that is better looking and more durable than home-made obstacles, while still being affordable. This high-energy form of competition and fun is something that can bring people and dogs together in a spirit of excellence, and we interact with our customers accordingly.

Some of the dog training obstacles include A-frames, dogwalks, weave poles, mini contact equipment, contact trainer, jumps (single, double, and triple), chutes, barrels, and teeters. Everything you need to set up a competition course should be easily ordered and quickly assembled.

Your dog training equipment should be durable enough to withstand practice session after practice session with no risk of injury to you or your dog.  Equipment  should be made out of durable, well-sealed materials that are weatherproof and built to last. Safety and visual appeal are what matter in dog training equipment.

