Father's Day Trivia


1. A renowned poet and novelist as well as chair of poetry at the University of Cambridge, this academy award-winning actor’s father wrote mysteries under the pseudonym Nicholas Blake.
A. Jack Nicholson
B. Charlie Sheen
C. Daniel Day Lewis
D. Rob Schneider

C. Daniel Day Lewis
QQ: Sure it seemed like a hard question, but really you had a fifty-fifty shot, didn’t you? After all, we all know what Charlie Sheen’s dad does and last time I checked Rob Schneider wasn’t winning any academy awards.

2. Social scientists believe that the modern Western family developed largely from that of the ancient Hebrews for what reason?
A. Their families were patriarchal in structure
B. It was a matriarchal society
C. It was an oligarchy
D. The Hebrews called their god “Father”

A. Their families were patriarchal in structure
QQ: There, now you must feel better after The QuizQueen gave you an easy one…

3. Which “father” figure does NOT exist?
A. Father Cats
B. Father Dogs
C. Father Christmas
D. Father Divine

B. Father Dogs
QQ: Father Cats was a Dutch writer, Father Christmas is the English Santa Claus, and Father Divine was an American religious leader.

4. Who was first named “Father of His Country”?
A. George Washington
B. Thomas Jefferson
C. Emperor Augustus
D. Napoleon Bonaparte

C. Emperor Augustus
QQ: In 2 BC, the Roman emperor Augustus is made Pater Patriae (“Father of his Country”).

5. Which ancient Greek god was least likely to celebrate Father’s Day?
A. Zeus, father of the gods
B. Iapetus, the father of Prometheus
C. Hyperion, the father of the sun, the moon, and the dawn
D. Cronos, god of fertility

D. Cronos, god of fertility
QQ: That’s because Cronos (Kronus) castrated his father and protected himself from a similar fate by eating his children. Some fertility god, eh?

6. If you are a first-born son, is it a good thing or a bad thing for your father to practice primogeniture?
A. Good
B. Bad
C. It depends
D. Who cares

A. Good
QQ: That’s because your inheritance is guaranteed under this system. He can’t cut you out of the will no matter what!

7. American actor Robert Young starred in what 1950’s TV show dedicated to fathers?
A. Father Knows Best
B. Leave it to Daddy
C. My Three Fathers
D. I Dream Of Papa

A. Father Knows Best
QQ: This was a gimmee, wasn’t it?

8. Which “Make Room For Daddy” star fathered “That Girl”?
A. Danny Thomas
B. Carl Reiner
C. Monty Gleason
D. Jon Voight

A. Danny Thomas
QQ: Everyone knows that Marlo was “That Girl,” right?

9. Which “father” figure does NOT exist?
A. Father Flanagan
B. Father Coughlin
C. Father Damien
D. Father Clinton

D. Father Clinton
QQ: Well, OK, maybe Bill is a father, but that is certainly not what he’s known for! Father Flanagan (of course) founded Boys Town, Father Coughlin was a Canadian-American priest and activist, and Father Damien was a Belgian missionary.

10. The ancient Egyptian deity Amon was represented by what animal?
A. Ram
B. Lion
C. Dog
D. Rat

A. Ram
QQ: He was the father of the moon, according to the mythology.

11. Which was NOT one of Spencer Tracy’s “father”-ly roles?
A. Father of the Bride
B. Father’s Little Dividend
C. Boys Town (Father Flanagan)
D. Father Knows Best

D. Father Knows Best
QQ: That’s right, Spencer Tracy was the “Father of the Bride” long before Steve Martin!

12. Which society is NOT patrilineal?
A. Bedouin
B. Ewe
C. Shawnee
D. Tuareg

D. Tuareg
QQ: How many people guessed Ewe? That was pretty tricky of The QuizQueen wasn’t it!

13. According to Greek mythology, the god of sleep was the father of Morpheus. What was his name?
A. Hypnos
B. Doseus
C. Napinus
D. Snoozola

A. Hypnos
QQ: Hypnos god of sleep, often depicted carrying a poppy; son of Nyx, brother of Thanatos, and father of Morpheus

14. What blue-eyed crooner fathered a singer whose boots were made for walking?
A. Elvis Presley
B. Bing Crosby
C. Frank Sinatra
D. Ricky Nelson

C. Frank Sinatra
QQ: Nancy Sinatra recorded “These Boots Are Made For Walking” for those who don’t remember!

15. What happens when a father practices the custom of couvade?
A. He takes to his bed and complains of labor pains
B. He circumcises his son
C. He demands a DNA test to ascertain paternity
D. The male penguin assists the female by sitting on the nest

A. He takes to his bed and complains of labor pains
QQ: Documented by Marco Polo and modern anthropologists, it is taken to be an assertion of his rights and responsibilities as father in some cultures.

16. According to Greek mythology, who was the father of the gods and mortals?
A. Cronus
B. Hades
C. Poseidon
D. Zeus

D. Zeus
QQ: If Homer said it then it must be true! However, it was more an honorary title than a practical one.

17. The country singer Tex _____ fathered a star who among other things played a role on Three’s Company. What is Tex’s last name?
A. Ritter
B. Somers
C. Knotts
D. Williams

A. Ritter
QQ: And he was John Ritter’s Dad of course!

18. Can you name the father-son acting duo where the father was Spartacus and the son became president (on screen)?
A. Kirk and Michael
B. Donald and Kieffer
C. Martin and Charlie
D. James and Josh

A. Kirk and Michael
QQ: This would of course be the Douglases! Did you know that if Kirk hadn’t changed his name they would be the Danielovitchs?

