Florida Casinos


Florida is well known for Disney, sunshine, amazing beaches and fresh citrus. Every year hundreds of thousands of people make their way to visit Tampa and other places to soak up the sunshine, do some swimming in the ocean at the coastal areas, and to check out Disney, Universal Studios, and other theme parks.

Florida features almost too many great tourist towns to count, including Tampa, Orlando, Cape Canaveral, Fort Lauderdale, Daytona Beach and many more. The Sunshine State has a population of well over 15,980,000 and features great weather year-round, making it a popular destination for those tired of the winter weather up north in areas such as Chicago, St. Louis and Minneapolis. Florida is also the home of many famous writers include the late, great John D. MacDonald. His Travis McGee series was set in many areas around Sarasota, Bradenton and Miami. These bestsellers are still on the racks waiting for non-Floridians to discover them.

In addition to all the great sun, surf and sights, Florida Casinos are a booming business in the Sunshine State. Florida Casinos and Florida gambling include many well-known games; slot machines, table games such as blackjack and Texas Hold-em poker; but also roulette and many other table games. What some don’t know about Florida Casinos is that many of them also feature dog-track betting, which is a famous Florida pastime. Many books have been written which feature a day at the Florida dog track as part of the plot! Florida casinos are an excellent way to discover fun without the need for sunblock and swimwear.

Florida casinos include land-based operations and cruise ship gambling, which offers a classy way to enjoy the state’s gambling and see the sights at the same time. Casino cruises are available everywhere from Cape Canaveral to Port Richey. There is a wide range of experiences on offer from Florida Casinos, the hardest choice you will have is where to start! From the dog track to the roulette wheel, and every game in between, you will find it all at Florida casinos. In Florida you may encounter some casinos that have specific dress codes, so be sure to check online or by telephone to find out what the rules are at each casino. Some Florida casinos specify a casual atmosphere, but may require no tank tops or flip-flops. Know before you go that you should gamble responsibly and above all, have fun!

