Glucosamine in a Dog's Diet


As you stand in the store pondering the plethora of varieties of dog food for your dog's diet, your mind can truly become overwhelmed.  The numerous ingredients in dog food simply complicate things even further.  Who really knows what all of those ingredients really mean?  You see glucosamine on some of the dog food labels.  That sounds a bit familiar.  Haven't you heard of glucosamine in the news?  What exactly is glucosamine and why should it be in your dog's diet?

You have probably heard of glucosamine in the news.  Glucosamine has been beneficial to joint health in humans.  Research has also shown that glucosamine in a dog's diet can be beneficial to your pet's
Health.

Glucosamine is a dietary supplement.  Glucosamine has been shown to encourage good joint health.  This supplement helps to maintain good joint cartilage.  Glucosamine is one of the key building blocks to produce joint lubricants.  The joint lubricant helps to keep the joints moving and functioning with ease.  Glucosamine in your dog's diet will ensure your pet's joints work at their peak performance levels for years to come.

How does glucosamine work to help your dog's joints?  Glucosamine hydrates and lubricates your pet's joints.  The added hydration and lubrication will help to prevent arthritis in your dog.  For this reason, glucosamine is a good supplement in your dog's diet.  Pet owners of large breed
Dogs that are predisposed to having joint and hip problems should especially consider adding glucosamine to their dog's diet.

Shellfish is a good source of glucosamine.  Another way to get glucosamine involves a unique process of fermenting corn.  This method to produce glucosamine creates a vegetable based glucosamine.

Glucosamine is typically safe as part of a healthy and balanced diet.  Your dog's diet should include glucosamine to encourage joint health.  Your pet will not suffer from side effects or interactions with medications when glucosamine is part of your  dog's diet.

Today, many high-quality dog foods, manufactured by reputable companies, have already added glucosamine to their food products.  Animal nutrition reports have discovered the benefits of glucosamine in your dog's diet and dog food producers have quickly responded.  If you find that your dog's diet does not contain glucosamine, or you feel your pet could benefit from additional supplementation in the diet, you should have no problem locating glucosamine supplements for your pet.

Glucosamine supplements come in numerous forms.  You can even give your dog a treat specially designed to supplement your dog's diet with glucosamine.  The tasty treat eliminates the trouble of dosing your dog with pills.

Of course, it is always best to talk to your veterinarian about any changes to your dog's diet.  He or she can give you advice about what supplements should be added to your dog's diet and in what quantity.  Ask your vet about the advantages of glucosamine.

As you consider your dog's diet and the ingredients, consider your dog's health.  Glucosamine is often added to high-quality dog food.  Talk to your vet to determine if additional glucosamine supplements would be beneficial in your dog's diet.  Protect your dog's joints by monitoring the amount of glucosamine in your dog's diet.



