Going Places With Your Dog


Dogs do like to travel well. Adventurous by nature, they want to check out new sights and sounds. They like to meet and see new people. But this does not mean that traveling with a dog is as easy as traveling with your clutch bag. Here are some tips on how to have a worry-free travel experience with your pet dog.

Hiring a pet sitter

If you are traveling far away from home without your pet dog, you might want to hire a pet sitter who could take care of your dog full-time. A pet sitter could be a member of your family or a friend who could stay over in your house and watch over your dog. You could also ask your veterinarian who could recommend someone to do the pet-sitting.

Leaving the dog in a kennel

If you chose to leave your pet in a kennel, shop around for recommendations for a good one from friends that own dogs or your vet. Go to the kennel before taking your dog and check if animals look well-cared for and the facilities comfortable and clean. Chat with the staff to make sure that your dog will be cared for properly.

Traveling with your dog

Should you decide that you’re bringing the dog along in your travel, ask the vet some tips on how to best travel with a dog, including problems on the transportation method. Ask if he or she could give your dog a certificate of clean health.

If you are flying via airplane, you should have a sturdy and good carrier for your pet. If not, the airline could ask you to buy a carrier from them. Some airlines allow your pet in the passenger compartment with you. Some put all the animals in the luggage compartment.

If you are riding in a car, the air conditioning should be kept on. Do not leave your dog unattended in a car that is parked. Do not park in direct sunlight even for a brief period of time, as it could drastically raise the heat temperature inside your car that might result to a heat stroke for your dog, or worse.

Foreign travel

Traveling with a dog or any other pet in foreign countries can prove to be difficult. Check with your vet for some tips. You might also want to ask the local consulate of the country you are visiting what are their requirements for you to bring your pet along.

Going places with your dog may be a pleasant experience. But you should remember the taking a dog, or any pet with you, anywhere could be a bit difficult.

