Home Security


Your home is your haven where you feel comfortable and secure, and it should be the last thing you should have to worry about. Thanks to technology, now you can pick and choose from a variety of home security systems, residential alarm systems, installation kits, do-it-yourself electronic goods and services, and secure your home or business in an easy but effective way.

A home security system can foil the attempts of the burglars. In an advanced system, the control box will activate a siren or other loud alarm noise flashing outdoor lights and a telephone auto-dialer. This alerts the occupants and neighbors that someone has broken into the house. It drives the intruder away and cna inform the police which house has been broken into.

The telephone auto-dialer can dial the police directly and play a pre-recorded message giving the address of the house and any other relevant information. This message will usually play over and over again to allow the police to hear it even if the call is put on hold for some time. Alternatively, it can dial the security company that installed the equipment that will then relay this information to the police. They can even dial your cellphone to alert you!

Home security is a rapidly growing field, and there are new and improved burglar alarms being invented all the time. All these systems are more or less built around the same basic structure. There is a central control box that monitors several motion detectors and the perimeter guards and sounds an alarm when any of them are triggered.

It is now quite common to have burglar alarms installed not only in stores and other businesses, but in private homes as well. These systems range from inexpensive do-it-yourself kits to sophisticated whole-house security networks that must be installed by professionals. However, some of the most effective alarm systems are also the simplest. The most basic burglar alarm is a simple electric circuit built into an entry way; it is as effective as the family dog. But the problem with it is that the intruder can cut off the connection by snapping the wires and render it useless.

To overcome this flaw the modern burglar alarms incorporate the control box into the circuit. It has its own power supply and monitors the circuits and sounds the alarm. The control box won't cut off the alarm until somebody enters a security code at a connected keypad. To make it even more secure, you should place the control box in an out-of-the-way spot, so the intruder can't find it and try to destroy it.

Another simple option of home security is the basic floor mat that uses an open circuit design with two metal strips spaced apart. These metal strips are pushed together when somebody steps on the mat and the circuit is completed.

All of these circuit systems are effective home security devices for guarding the perimeter of a house or business from the points an intruder is likely to enter the building. Once the entry points are taken care of your home security system is in place and you can feel absolutely safe and secure in your house.

