House Training Dogs Successfully


You could House train your dog easily if you had the time to watch your puppy 24 hours a day. But as you can’t watch them around the clock, don’t expect to train them all at once. Training can take up to about 6 months. Puppies are growing and developing quickly at this stage. They eat more food and burn up lots of energy and consequently need to ‘go’ more often.

The most important issue in house training dogs should be teaching him to control his bowel. When he is still a puppy, he has not yet developed bladder control.

House training dogs is hard when you are not home. Your puppy needs a lot of attention. You should first confine your puppy in a puppy-proof room with paper spread all over the floor. Put his water bowls and food right next to it. The papers you have set on the floor may be dragged and chewed around his little den, but its important and helpful in teaching your puppy where to eliminate his waste properly. There will be no reason for him to defecate elsewhere. Your puppy will ‘go’ on the paper, and you need to clean it up when you arrive home. This may be an additional job for you, but patience is all it takes. Don’t worry because later on, he will move past this stage.

Paper training is very useful and a proven technique in training dogs. In this way, no matter where the dog relieves himself, he will still eliminate on the paper because he has no choice. Little by little, you will see some changes. Gradually reduce the amount paper you have set on the ground. Start to move the paper outside the house. Of course, as your puppy has become used to using the paper he will look for it. Once the paper has been moved to outside the house, your training is near its end. Move the paper about an inch per day.

Occasionally, you may discover that he has had ‘accidents’ inside the house again. Don’t be discouraged. This happens. What you need to do is repeat the training. But understand that it will not be as hard as the first time. House training your dog is key for both your dog and your sanity and sanitation.

