Is my Pet Bird Sick?


Having a pet can be a very good thing for you and your family. And pet birds are often among some of the most popular pets that you can get. They are great for families with children and lots of responsibilities, because as long as you do a few things for them, you will find that they demand less of your time than cats and dogs do. However, like all animals, birds might get sick, and because they are less common than cats and dogs, and because you are going to interact with your bird much less than your cat or dog, you might find it difficult to tell when your bird is sick. Luckily, there are a few things that you can do to make sure you are paying good attention to your pet bird, and to make sure that you notice when they are sick.

One of the best ways to tell when your pet bird is sick is to listen for changes in their song. Singing is the way that birds communicate with the outside world. You might think that they are just chattering, but if you really pay attention you will begin to notice that your bird has a distinct sound and makes noises at different times of the day. It will probably have one song that it has in the morning, and one in the evening. Also, your bird might make noises when it sees you, or sees other members of the family. There will be noises that it makes when you change its food or water, or when you put something in the cage. As a responsible pet owner, you should be aware of these noises. That way, you can notice when they change. If your bird stops making the noises that they have always made, or makes new noises you have never heard before, they might be sick.

Like sounds, your bird will develop movements that you should be able to recognize. You should be able to see where it likes to perch, and what kind of movements it likes to do during the day and night. If you see that your bird isn't moving as much as it usually does, or is sitting on the floor of the cage instead of on its perch, it might be sick, and you should pay some attention to it. Also, if it is moving much more than usual, and trying to fly out of the cage, it also might be sick, and there should be something done about it. Talk to your vet immediately.

