Pet Grooming Is A Responsibility


Many pets purchased today are purebred.  The elaborate care required for maintaining health and value should be known and the responsible owner will follow these guidelines.  A large amount of households, however, still follow tradition and have chosen a mixed-breed house pet.  These individuals may feel that the responsibilities for pet ownership are limited to veterinarian care, food, toys and accessories, but the family who is gifted with a "free" puppy or kitten must also consider the necessity of pet grooming when compiling the expenses and responsibilities for the newest family member.

The family, who chooses a short-haired pet, may feel that this will alleviate the obligation for daily grooming; this is however, a mistaken thought process.  The shorter haired pet will still require regular brushing to stimulate a healthy coat and reduce loose pet hair.  The indoor pet will invariably leave hair throughout their environment, so brushing is essential for a cleaner home.  In addition, indoor pets are subjected to the same environmental influences as their human family.  Dry, hot, furnace heat and artificial cooling systems dehydrate the skin causing it to flake and slough off.  Although perhaps more apparent amongst darker-toned breeds, this same process is occurring in the family pet.  Dandruff-like flaking will appear on the dog or cat's coat when stimulated either by hand or brush, indicating dry skin.

Supplements or vitamins may need to be included into the pet's diet for complete relief, but the inclusion of regular baths into the pet grooming routine will provide the greatest improvement.  Some individuals may choose to do this themselves, however the local pet groomer will also perform this for a reasonable fee.

Proper pet grooming does not end with the animal's skin and coat, as other needs will require regular attention as well.  The home that now includes a domestic cat will need its members to be diligent in training the animal to use a scratching post.  Failing this, the decision to de-claw the feline used to be the only option; however, today's pet grooming advances have made it possible to live with the offending talons.  A pet groomer can be enlisted to clip the tips of the front claws or soft pads can be applied to the claw, thus keeping the nails from damaging inappropriate surfaces.  If started at a young age, the adult cat will readily submit to either of these procedures, however the responsible pet owner should speak to their veterinarian about which options would be the best for the animal and the expense that will be included in the pet's regular grooming routine.

The family, who has chosen to bring a dog into the home, must also realize their responsibilities in regards to nail care.  Regardless of size, a dog's nails can be damaging if not kept to a proper length.  This damage does not just include the family home and property, but can also extend to the animal itself.  Nails that are not clipped may cause the pet to walk awkwardly or lead to other foot problems; therefore this is a maintenance necessity.  Some dogs are submissive and do not require any assistance; however, this is not often the case.  The veterinarian may be needed to perform this grooming necessity.  This could become quite expensive; however, many pet professionals will eagerly train the pet owner to do this job themselves.  The pet owner should be aware, though that this is a procedure that is best begun as soon as possible and at regular intervals, as the normally docile family dog may react very adversely to the nail clipping regimen.


Regardless of the initial cost in procuring a family pet, the family needs to be aware and understand the responsibilities that they have now chosen to undertake.  The animal's health must be maintained and this will require the procurement of a good medical professional.  In addition, though, the family must understand the obligations for regular pet grooming to assure a long and happy life for this family member.