Pictures Of Iguanas


New Pet Iguana - Tame Them

Iguanas belong to the family of lizards. Like most reptiles, iguanas belong to the cold-blooded animals whose body temperature changes with the temperature of the air or water around it that is why iguanas have excellent capability to survive to the environment.

Iguanas have a long, whip-like tails, eyelids, four sprawling legs, big mouth and saw-like teeth. Iguanas are of different species. They may differ in behavior, size and color which may vary from green to yellow. Some has a vivid color, some has dull color. These creatures usually have a life span of 15-20 years in captivity.

Iguanas have its unique adaptation to its habitat. The Marine Iguanas are skillful swimmer, the Green iguanas can usually be found in rainforest, and others, like the desert iguanas have the ability to adapt and survive even in dry and hot desert.

There are iguanas that are readily available in pet shops. These have gain the popularity of iguanas for pet. It is challenging to own iguanas especially in taming it. Unlike cats and dogs, iguanas are not domesticated animals. It takes time before they become comfortable and tame. They have still the instinct and behavior that help them survive in the wild even after years of captivity and breed.

It is also very important when handling iguanas, to make sure they are comfortable. Iguanas are sometimes territorial aggressive creatures. In taming them, you need to be patient. It is best to handle them daily. In handling them, do not swoop your hand from above them, they may think you’re a predator, remember these creatures are used to wild habitat. Instead, bring your hand to its eye level and approach them slowly. Don’t make any fast moves. There are pictures of iguanas and how to handle them that may give you vivid picture on how to handle them. Talking and whispering while you are approaching them may also help. Handling your iguanas on daily basis and spending time with them will gradually tame them.  Understanding their body language and their real meaning, like bobbing of their head, whipping their tail will help you interact with your pet better.

There are highly debated topics when it comes to feeding or what to feed to your iguanas. Iguanas are basically herbivore creatures. They eat leaves, fruits and flowers. Improper feeding may result to death or sickness of your pet. Iguanas are strictly vegetarian. Although there are books that say iguanas can be fed other animal protein based foods. It is recommended for them to have a varied diet.

Iguanas have saw-like teeth that they use to rip and tear their food instead of chewing it. Clean and chop the food finely before giving it to them. It is important for your iguanas to have strong and healthy bones. Providing them with a wide variety fresh food that is high in calcium and phosphorous and clean water is good for your iguanas’ diet. Iguanas should be fed daily. At least two leafy green each day.

The amount of food that you may give to your iguana depends on the size and the appetite of your pet.  It would be best to give them enough food that will last all day and even leave food at night.  You can also find tables of good food that you can feed to your iguanas.

Reading up more information about iguanas, such as how to tame them, proper training, handling and proper feeding them will help you successfully kept them for years.

