Playing Poker Online - Some Tips And Traps To Avoid


Wow - You've see it on TV. The glamour, the glitz, THE CASH!!! And you may have noticed that one of the key skills in any poker game is observation. In a live game there are relatively few distractions and you get to watch the reactions and body language of your opponents.

Playing online is a whole different ball game. There’s the TV, the family, the dog, the phone, in fact it seems like the whole world wants your attention. This is not good for your game and ultimately your poker earnings. Oops you just folded that AA when you wanted to raise. Damn now you called an all-in bet with junk and you meant to fold. Don’t laugh, I've done both of these and it’s cost me quite a few dollars!!

So now you’re in the Den, it’s quiet and at last you can concentrate. Ah, let’s just reply to these emails, do that search for a new BBQ and review the excellent poker sites for the best bonus deals. Hey what do you mean I’m sitting out?? Multi-tasking the modern day buzz word. And a total killer for your poker profits.

It’s a tough enough game to beat when you’re fully concentrating, on top of your game and playing the best that you can. So why handicap yourself by not giving it the attention it deserves. And have fun while you’re doing it. Chat and Smack Talk while you play, you may send a player on tilt! But don’t forget to concentrate, it takes a lot of focus and discipline, especially when the game is slow and you’re just not getting any cards. Don’t be tempted to push for some action – you’ll lose more money quicker than that!

The best way to split your attention is to play 2 or even 3 tables at a time. This guarantees that you can’t focus your attention on any particular table. If you must do this, (and I’m certainly guilty of it!!), play a tournament and a ring game, or 2 tournaments. Try and avoid playing multiple ring games, it’s just not profitable in the long run unless you’re Howard Leaderer or Phil Ivey.

Pick a card room and a table that suit how you play. At the lower limits that’s easier said than done, but by OBSERVING what’s going on, you’ll get a ‘feel’ for the table after a few hands and for little or no expense, depending on whether you posted and went through the blinds or not. If it doesn’t suit you, get up and find another table. It’ll be far cheaper in the long run than trying to force the table you’re on. Know when to cut and run and when to stay.

As the play progresses you’ll notice players leaving and joining. Pay extra attention here as the fish you were milking has left and a tight aggressive player is now in their place. This could affect the complexion of the whole table and make it unprofitable to continue.

Play tight, aggressive and sensibly and your bank roll will grow over time – and maybe I’ll see you at the WSOP!!

