Reducing Skin Problems


Your skin is your body's biggest organ. Some  problems are acne,  Rosacea , melasma , dermatitis and psoriasis. Acne is one of the most common problems. Caused by an increase in the production of hormones, acne affects most teenagers and  many adults. Main symptoms of acne include reddened, inflamed bumps , whiteheads and blackheads. Sunburn results from too much sun or sun-equivalent exposure. The consequence of this burn is inflammation of the skin. Certain light-skinned and fair-haired people are at greater risk of sunburn injury.Wear wide-brimmed hats, long sleeved shirts and pants. Wear sunglasses with total UV protection. Dark circles is very common problem which may be caused due to fatigue, loss of sleep, prolonged illness, anemia and migraine.  Rashes are usually caused by skin irritation, which can have many causes. Whiteheads are the small, pearly, white raised spots. They are the collection of sebum and keratin that plugs the opening of skin pore. Eczema is a group of skin conditions which produces inflammation, itching and sometimes scaling or blisters. It occurs more frequently in men than in women.
The main symptoms of eczema is flaking and itching , redness and swelling and irritation and inflammation. Eczema affects about 10% to 20% of infants and about 3% of adults and children in the U.S. Topical steroids can be applied to the skin to reduce inflammation.  Anti-fungal creams may be needed for adult seborrhea eczema. Phototherapy is another treatment that helps some people with eczema .Cellulites' is a type of skin infection. Staph (Staphylococcus aurous) is the most common bacteria that causes cellulites. It may be accompanied by fever, chills, sweating, and swollen lymph glands. The signs of cellulites are those of any inflammation; redness, warmth, swelling, and pain.
Redness and flushing on the face or neck is called " Rosacea". Rosacea is a skin disease. Antibiotic creams or pills may be used to treat redness and pimples. Surgery or other treatments may help your skin look better if you have advanced Rosacea.  Fungal infections of the skin are more common in warm, humid climates. Another type of fungus is spread by cats and dogs. It is less common but causes more severe infections. Wear slippers or sandals in locker rooms, showers, and public bathing areas. Keep your skin clean and dry. Always dry yourself completely after showers or baths. Shingles (herpes zoster) is a viral infection of the nerve roots. It causes pain and often causes a rash.

