Things To Consider When Renting With Pets


When you are looking for a place to rent and you have a dog or a cat, you may find the apartments available are few and in between. Many property owners today do not want to rent their properties to owners of pets. The reason is because of bad experiences in the past, or they do not like pets. If this is the situation, you may have a hard time finding a place where your pets will be welcomed. If you do find a place that will allow renting with pets, you may have to pay an extra pet deposit or even a higher monthly rent.

If you are renting with pets, and decide after a while, you do not want pets anymore, you want to have a clause in your rental agreement that will lower the rent if you are paying extra or that the property owner can inspect the place and return your pet deposit. The property owner and you as the renter should agree to this prior to signing the rental agreement. You do not want to have monies held for a pet you do no longer have in the apartment or house.

Renting with pets is sometimes the hardest thing to accomplish. You may find that places that allow pets are not as nice as a place that does not allow pets. You should always look at many places rather than just a few before making a decision. Another issue with renting with pets is that you may find the apartment or house that previously had pets, attracts bad behavior from your pets. There is one sure way to find out if there are pet urines spots that could attract your pets to follow suit.

Property owners can do this before returning pet deposits as well. Take a black light and go over carpets, walls and hardwood flooring to see if there is evidence of pet urine. This works well for finding out if there could be potential problems with your pets. If you do find areas with urine, you should point these out to the property owner before your pet enters the rental unit.

You are going to find that most property owners will not accept pets. There are some however, that do but you need to know how to present your pet. If you have a dog, it is a good idea to explain the age, how long you have had the dog and if it has any behavior problems. Property owners also look at the type of dog you have because many homeowner insurance policies will not provide insurance if you have a certain breed of dog. This will be a deciding fact for property owners even if they allow pets.

If you have a fish aquarium or a small rodent such as a hamster, it may not be a problem with a property owner. You just have to learn how to present your pet in a way that is flattering and not negative.