Top Natural Dry Dog Foods


Your dog will remain healthy and strong if the dog is fed with proper food. Carelessness in giving the right food may lead to a disaster. A variety of natural dry dog foods are available that can maintain the health of your dog. If you want to give your dog a real good meal then natural dry dog foods are the best choice.

Natural dry dog foods do not contain any meat by products, artificial flavors and colors or chemical preservatives. Ingredients used are of superior quality. At present there are more than 75 brands of  natural dry dog foods.

Here are the top 5 natural dry dog foods that are available in the market;

Advanced Dog rice and chicken formula is commonly preferred by many as it is a mixture of vitamins, wholegrains, minerals and proteins that maximize palatability, nutrient assimilation and digestibility. If you feed your dog with this high quality food then good health is guaranteed. It is prepared from human grade natural chicken. This nutritious food contains peas, carrots and brown rice.

The food is free of chemical additives, herbicides, pesticides, antibiotics and hormones. It is naturally preserved with the help of vitamin E. Artificial colors are not used. It provides complete and a balanced nutrition. This product is high in protein content which supports specific life stages. It contains antioxidants which help to maintain a healthy immune system.

Another type of food that is well known uses peak protein formula: This product is rich in protein. It will enhance the performance of your dog as it provides high energy levels. In this food chicken is a major source of protein. Other ingredients include tomato pomace, oats, potatoes and salmon which provide you the necessary vitamins, amino acids and minerals. This product is also low in carbohydrates and is generally given to adults.

Adult dogs maintenance formula is one of the top 5 natural dry dog foods. Protein in this product is highly digestible which increases the longevity of your dog. Brown rice and whole grains will enhance the condition and performance of your dog. It also provides vegetables that are required in maintaining a healthy skin. Ingredients used are all natural. By products are not used. Chemical preservatives as well as artificial flavors are not used.

The daily nutrition and health for adult which is a very famous dog food is uniquely prepared with the right balance of nutrients that provide active adult years for your dog.
The nutrition maintains the immune system of your dog. A healthy skin is guaranteed when your dog is given this product. In general it promotes overall wellness.

Fat reducing formula for less active or overweight dogs is another type of food that is very popular. It contains tri meat proteins which provide maximum health to your dogs. A high standard of quality is maintained while making this food and is sure to satisfy your dog’s needs.

These top 5 natural dry dog foods are very beneficial for your dogs. Depending on your age you should provide one of the top 5 natural dry dog foods.