What Is The History Of The Boxer Dog?


The boxer dog breed originated in Germany in the late 19th century. This is recognized as the standard. A great deal of this standard remains in today’s written standards from around the world. The Boxer was bred from the Alt's Schecken, which was bred to a bulldog in the year 1895.

This resulted in the birth of the first boxer dog which was registered in the Stud Book in the year 1904. In the early lines, there was a high level of inbreeding which was done to set a type in order to establish the breed. In the earliest years of breeding, one of the most important dogs was the bitch named Meta v.d. Passage.

The boxer dog descended from the early mastiffs. Their ancestors were used for hunting bears and even wild boars, and also to fight dogs when the hunt was ineffective. The bull dog fights were banned and the dogs became watchdogs and circus dogs. The boxer is the result of the cautious and selective breeding of these dogs and it crossed over to other breeds such as the Great Danes and the English Bulldogs. This was achieved in the 19th century.

The boxer dog is recognized and designed for his attachment, defensive skill, cleverness, aptitude, and learning abilities. A boxer is a playful dog which is high spirited and known to make a good guard dog.

Boxer dogs have helped us in many ways. Not only do they look good but they have played a vital role in investigating crime scenes.

These dogs often seem scary but they are one of the most amazing dogs in the world. They are capable of giving unconditional love to their owners. They are often mistaken to be violent but, actually, their looks are deceptive.

Many Boxer dogs end up being deserted and abandoned because they are used as just a guard dog or a protector and are not given much attention. Although they are very much capable of protecting their masters, the breed is not destructive by nature. Unkind owners cannot teach or train them aggressively which is why they are abandoned. They need to be trained with an even hand to get the best from them as a breed.

