Adequan Helps To Alleviate The Osteoarthritis


Adequan is an injectable substance, which is very similar to the more conversant oral supplement called ‘glucosamine’. Adequan is also known as ‘polysulfated glycosaminoglycan.’

Adequan has been proven to be specially absorbed by inflamed joints when interjected into the dog’s muscles. It pacifies and lubes the joint, reducing swelling and soreness by repressing friction in a natural way. It also helps to restructure cartilage in the damaged joint. It’s not just pain reliever, its therapy.

In treating inflammation of a joint or joints (arthiritis), injections are given two times a week for at least 4 weeks for a maximum of eight injections. Injections are given intramuscularly to dogs, cats, and horses suffering with arthritis. A human product has freshly joined the market.

Adequan does all this without potential fallouts. To know its possible side effects, a study was conducted on 24 dogs receiving Adequan injections, one dog developed a painful injection site, one developed looseness of the bowels (diarrhea), and one developed abnormal bleeding. All side effects were classified as mild and none of them required any cure.

Some humans who have used Adequan have reported that it burns a little. After injecting, Adequan upsets some dogs’ stomachs for a short time. In very rare cases it can cause low platelets, and this is a condition that is reversed upon discontinuing the drug.

Adequan binds to damaged cartilage and advances cartilage metabolism, easing repair processes. Simultaneously, it blockades the activeness of unhelpful enzymes, which encourage joint inflammation, collapse the synovial fluid, and harass the cartilage. Adequan energizes the synovial tissue layer to fabricate novel synovial juice to reinstate the thin, degraded fluid of joint disease. By doing all this, Adequan helps lubricate, nurture, and clear the cartilage.

Adequan has not been analyzed in pregnant or breastfeeding animals. At first 8-dose series is suggested: 2 mg/lb intramuscularly twice a week for four weeks. Adequan Canine is boxed in 5 mL (100 mg/mL) multidose vials.

